# women-safety-app

## **Overview**

This app has been designed to provide safety to women with the help of voice recognition technology to trigger the emergency mode and provide instant help to the woman.


## **Layout**

## Frontend-

This folder contains the code for the frontend side of the application i.e User Interface elements and fetching reqeusts from the backend.
This has been developed using the expo CLI.
Technologies used : React Native.

## Backend-

This folder contains the code for the backend side of the application. Technologies used : NodeJS, MongoDB.

## speech-to-text-

This folder contains the code for the transcribing and storing the audio generated file from google speech to text api.
 
## How to run the project locally     
   
Shortcut:    
Note - You'll need to have api keys, if needed for testing please drop a mail at (snigdha.bhatnagar312@gmail.com).   
1. Open Frontend folder in CLI. ( cd Frontend)
2. run ```npm install```
3. run ```npm start```
4. Install expo app on mobile device.
5. Scan QR code from your mobile.
Backend has already been deployed. So no need to worry.   

To run the whole project:           
1. Open Frontend folder in CLI. ( cd Frontend)
2. run ```npm install```
3. run ```npm start```
4. Open Backend folder.
5. run ```npm install```
6. run ```npm start```
7. Open speech-to-text folder
8. Here you'll again need to export credentials to make the google speech to text work.
9. run ```node index.js```   
10. Install expo app on mobile device.
11. Scan QR code from your mobile generated by starting frontend.

## Prerequisities

npm installed    
node installed     
expo cli installed    
expo app on mobile device.
